# Detection-of-Parkinson-Disease-Using-Machine-Learning.
Parkinson’s disease is an age-related degenerative brain condition, meaning it causes parts of your brain to deteriorate. It’s known for causing slowed movements, tremors, balance problems and more. Most cases happen for unknown reasons, but some are inherited. The condition isn’t curable, but there are many different treatment options. 
Aim and Objective of the Project For this project, We have decided to focus on the field of medicine and classify whether or not a patient has Parkinson’s disease based on their vocalization data. For more context, Parkinson’s is a progressive disease that causes the degeneration of the brain, leading to both motor and cognitive problems. It is thus reasonable to assume a correlation between a patient’s ability to speak and their progression into Parkinson’s as these capabilities regress. The data set we have worked with was obtained through a 2008 study by the journal, IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, of how various parameters of voice frequency can help classify if a patient is suffering from Parkinson’s. By performing a classification on this data, we hope to prove that vocalization tests are indeed a well suited way to diagnose a patient for this disease.
Problem Statement -This project attempts to prove that vocalization data from a patient can help diagnose whether or not they suffer from Parkinson’s. As such, it is initially assumed that there is a relationship between the two. I will attempt to run various Data mining algorithms on the data in hopes to reach a high predictability rate that is matched with a reasonable runtime.
